=========
Reporting
=========

The :guilabel:`Reporting` section offers a variety of reports to choose from. The
:guilabel:`Payroll`, :guilabel:`Meal Vouchers`, :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary`, and
:guilabel:`DMFA` reports are universal and available for all companies regardless of location, while
the rest of the reports are specific to Belgium only.

To view a report, go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting` and click on the specific report to
view.

.. image:: reporting/reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

If a report is unavailable to a company, a user error will pop up, stating “You must be logged in a
Belgian company to use this feature.” Click :guilabel:`OK` or the small x in the top right corner to
close the warning.

The *Filters* and *Favorites* options appear for all reports in the top right. At the top of the
individual report, click on :guilabel:`Filters` to display the optional filters for the specific
report. All reports have an option to add a custom filter. Each report will have different default
custom filter options. Select the parameters, then click the :guilabel:`Apply` smart button.

.. image:: reporting/custom-filter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Clicking on :guilabel:`Favorites` allows for three options: save the current search, add the search
to the dashboard, or insert the search to a Google spreadsheet.

.. image:: reporting/favorites.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Favorite options for reports.

Payroll
-------

Clicking on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> Payroll` will display the *Payroll Analysis*
report.

.. image:: reporting/payroll-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

This will display all the payslips generated in the last 365 days. This report can display
metrics for a variety of parameters. Click the :guilabel:`Measures` box and a drop down will appear
with all the various options to display. The options available are: # Payslip, Basic Wage, Basic
Wage for Time Off, Days of Paid Time Off, Days of Unforeseen Absence, Days of Unpaid Time Off, Gross
Wage, Net Wage, Number of Days, Number of Hours, Work Days, Work Hours, and Count.

.. image:: reporting/measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Bar chart
~~~~~~~~~

To display the data in a bar chart, click on the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` icon (first icon)in the menu
bar.

.. image:: reporting/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

When this option is selected, an option to display the chart as stacked appears. Click the middle
:guilabel:`Stacked` icon to view the bar chart in a stacked format (where multiple values appear in
each column). An option to display the columns in ascending or descending order appears at the end
of the options.

.. tip::
   Clicking an option will enable the option. To disable it, click the option again. When the option
   is enabled it will appear grey, when it is inactive, it will appear white.

Line chart
~~~~~~~~~~

A line chart is the default view for the *Payroll Analysis* report. If a different view was
selected, click on the :guilabel:`Line Chart` icon (last icon) in the menu bar to change the view
back to a line chart. An option to display the line chart in ascending or descending order appears
at the end of the options.

.. image:: reporting/line-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Pie chart
~~~~~~~~~

To display the data in a pie chart, click on the :guilabel:`Pie Chart` icon (last icon) in the menu
bar. There are no other options available in this view.

.. image:: reporting/pie-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Lower half chart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The bottom half of the screen presents a graph no matter which measures are selected for the main
chart. The default information displayed is the number of payslips, net wage, gross wage, days of
paid time off, and days of unpaid time off. The information is divided by the department. To display
more information on the report, click on the :guilabel:`Measures` drop down, and click on any other
items to display.

.. image:: reporting/measures-bottom.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

To sort the entires by a specific column, such as *Net Wage*, click on the column name twice. The
first click will select the column, the second click will sort the information in descending order.

.. image:: reporting/net-wage.png
   :align: center
   :alt: To sort information by descending order, click the column head twice.

To export the data in an xlsx format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will
be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

.. image:: reporting/export.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download button.

The data can be inserted in a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
button. A pop up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information. Select an existing
spreadsheet or enter the name for a new spreadsheet. Click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button to
move to a spreadsheet view with all the information populated.

.. image:: reporting/spreadsheet.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Send the data to a spreadsheet.

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on :guilabel:`File`, then select :guilabel:`Save` to save the
data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to use the current template in the future.

Meal Vouchers
-------------

:guilabel:`Meal Vouchers` provides an overview of  the meal vouchers used by employees, and can be
shown by day, week, month, quarter, or year. The default view is by month.

.. image:: reporting/meal-vouchers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

To change the displayed view, click on :guilabel:`Total`. The data will collapse, showing only the
count column. Click on :guilabel:`Total` again, then hover over *Day*, then click on one of the
other time-period options available.

.. image:: reporting/voucher-day.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

It is possible to compare the meal voucher report to the previous time period currently displayed,
or the previous year. To view these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop
down at the top, then select either :guilabel:`Date: Previous Period` or
:guilabel:`Date: Previous Year`.

.. image:: reporting/meal-comparison.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

To export the data in an xlsx format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will
be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

.. image:: reporting/voucher-download.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download button.

The data can be inserted in a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
button. A pop up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information. Select an existing
spreadsheet or enter the name for a new spreadsheet. Click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button to
move to a spreadsheet view with all the information populated.

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on :guilabel:`File`, then select :guilabel:`Save` to save the
data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to use the current template in the future.

Attachment of Salary
--------------------

The :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary` report shows all deductions or allocations per employee,
such as child support payments and wage garnishments.

.. image:: reporting/attachment-of-salary.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View the Attachment of Salary report that shows all salary garnishments.

The employees are listed in the left side column, while the different deductions are listed in the
top row, organized by month.

The report can be exported as a xlsx file, or inserted into a spreadsheet, using the corresponding
smart buttons at the top.

Clicking on the :guilabel:`Measures` smart button wil show the options of
data to display. Assignment of salary, attachment of salary, child support, and count, can all be
selected or deselected by clicking on the item. If an item has a check mark, it will be displayed.

.. image:: reporting/attachment-measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select the options that be displayed in the report.

The salary attachment  can be compared to the previous time period or the previous year. To view
these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop down at the top, then selec
either :guilabel:`Payslip End Date: Previous Period` or :guilabel:`Payslip End Date: Previous Year`.
